# 2019 UK greenhouse gas emissions: final figures – dataset of emissions by end user
This publication provides the final estimates of UK territorial greenhouse gas
emissions going back to 1990.

Estimates are presented by source in February of each year. They are updated
each year:

  * in March, to include estimates by end-user and fuel type
  * in June, to include estimates by Standard Industrial Classification (SIC)

The statistics covers emissions that occur within the UK’s borders. When
emissions are reported by source, emissions are attributed to the sector that
emits them directly. When emissions are reported by end-user, energy supply
emissions by source are reallocated in accordance with where the end-use
activity occurred. This reallocation of emissions is based on a modelling
process. For example, all the carbon dioxide produced by a power station is
allocated to the power station when reporting on a source basis. However, when
applying the end-user method, these emissions are reallocated to the users of
this electricity, such as domestic homes or large industrial users.

BEIS does not estimate emissions outside the UK associated with UK
consumption, however the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs
publishes estimates of the [UK’s carbon
footprint](https://www.gov.uk/government/statistics/uks-carbon-footprint)
annually. The [alternative approaches to reporting UK greenhouse gas emissions
report](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/uk-greenhouse-gas-
emissions-explanatory-notes) outlines the differences between them.

For the purposes of reporting, greenhouse gas emissions are allocated into a
small number of broad, high level sectors known as National Communication
sectors, which are as follows: energy supply, business, transport, public,
residential, agriculture, industrial processes, land use land use change and
forestry (LULUCF), and waste management.

These high-level sectors are made up of a number of more detailed sectors,
which follow the definitions set out by the [International Panel on Climate
Change (IPCC)](http://www.ipcc.ch/), and which are used in international
reporting tables which are submitted to the [United Nations Framework
Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC)](https://unfccc.int/) every year. A
[list of corresponding Global Warming Potentials (GWPs) used and a record of
base year emissions](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/uk-greenhouse-
gas-emissions-explanatory-notes) are published separately.

This is a National Statistics publication and complies with the Code of
Practice for Statistics.

Please check our [frequently asked
questions](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/uk-greenhouse-gas-
emissions-statistics-user-guidance) or email
[Climatechange.Statistics@beis.gov.uk](mailto:Climatechange.Statistics@beis.gov.uk)
if you have any questions or comments about the information on this page.

  *[SIC]: Standard Industrial Classification
  *[LULUCF]: land use land use change and forestry
  *[IPCC]: International Panel on Climate Change
  *[UNFCCC]: United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
  *[GWPs]: Global Warming Potentials

